.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii sbt.1
.\"
.TH SBT 1 "NOVEMBER 2011" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
sbt \- Simple Build Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sbt [-h] [-sbt-version
.I sbt-version
.B ]
.I <commands>
.B ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sbt
Runs the Simple Build Tool using the currently installed
.BR java (1)
The current directory is assumed to be the project.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h, -help"
Show help options.
.IP "-v, -verbose"
turn up the noise
.IP "-d, -debug"
set sbt log level to debug
.IP -no-colors
disable ANSI color codes
.IP -sbt-create
start sbt even if current directory contains no sbt project
.IP "-sbt-dir <path>"
path to global settings/plugins directory (default: ~/.sbt)
.IP "-sbt-boot <path>"
path to shared boot directory (default: ~/.sbt/boot in 0.11 series)
.IP "-ivy <path>"
path to local Ivy repository (default: ~/.ivy2)
.IP "-mem <integer>"
set memory options (default: $sbt_mem, which is $(get_mem_opts $sbt_mem))
.IP "-no-share"
use all local caches; no sharing
.IP "-no-global"
uses global caches, but does not use global ~/.sbt directory.
.IP "-jvm-debug <port>"
Turn on JVM debugging, open at the given port.
.IP -batch
Disable interactive mode
.IP -offline
put sbt in offline mode
.SH SBT Version Options
.IP "-sbt-version <sbt-version>"
Use the alternate system wide
.I sbt-version
The Simple Build Tool version to use.  This script will
download necessary versions using the
.BR curl (1)
tool.
.IP "-sbt-jar <path>"
use the specified jar as the sbt launcher
.IP "-sbt-rc"
use an RC version of sbt
.IP -sbt-snapshot
use a snapshot version of sbt
.SH Java Options
.IP "-java-home <path>"
alternate JAVA_HOME
.IP "-Dkey=val"
pass -Dkey=val directly to the java runtime
.IP -J-X
pass option -X directly to the java runtime (-J is stripped)
.IP -S-X
add -X to sbt's scalacOptions (-S is stripped)
.SH FILES
.I ~/.sbt
.RS
The user configuration file.
.RE
.I ".jvmopts"
.RS
if this file exists in the current directory, its contents are appended
to the JAVA_OPTS.
.RE
.I ".sbtopts"
.RS
if this file exists in the current directory, its contents are prepended
to the runner args.
.RE
.I "/etc/sbt/sbtopts"
.RS
if this file exists, it is prepended to the runner args
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP JAVA_OPTS
If non-null a set of arguments passed to java.
.IP SBT_OPTS
environment variable, if unset uses "$default_sbt_opts".
.SH EXAMPLES
Most users of this script will only have to call "sbt" on the command line.
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Phillips <paulp@typesafe.com>


