.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii sbt.1
.\"
.TH SBT 1 "NOVEMBER 2011" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
sbt \- Simple Build Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sbt [-h] [-sbt-version
.I sbt-version
.B ]
.I <commands>
.B ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sbt
Runs the Simple Build Tool using the currently installed
.BR java (1)
The current directory is assumed to be the project.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -h
Show help options.
.IP "-verbose | -v"
turn up the noise
.IP "-debug or -d"
set sbt log level to debug
.IP -no-colors
disable ANSI color codes
.IP -sbt-create
start sbt even if current directory contains no sbt project
.IP "-sbt-dir  <path>"  
path to global settings/plugins directory (default: ~/.sbt)
.IP "-sbt-boot <path>"
path to shared boot directory (default: ~/.sbt/boot in 0.11 series)
.IP "-ivy      <path>"
path to local Ivy repository (default: ~/.ivy2)
.IP "-mem   <integer>"
set memory options (default: $sbt_mem, which is $(get_mem_opts $sbt_mem))
.IP "-no-share"
use all local caches; no sharing
.IP -offline
put sbt in offline mode
.SH SBT Version Options
.IP "-sbt-version <sbt-version>"
Use the alternate system wide
.I sbt-version
The Simple Build Tool version to use.  This script will
download necessary versions using the
.BR curl (1)
tool.
.IP "-sbt-jar      <path>"
use the specified jar as the sbt launcher
.IP "-sbt-rc"
use an RC version of sbt
.IP -sbt-snapshot
use a snapshot version of sbt
.SH Scala Options
.IP -28
use latest 2.8.x Scala release
.IP -29
use latest 2.9.x release
.IP -210
use latest 2.10.x release
.IP "-scala-home <path>"
use the scala build at the specified directory
.IP "-scala-version <version>"
use the specified version of scala
.SH Java Options
.IP "-java-home <path>"
alternate JAVA_HOME
.IP "-Dkey=val"
pass -Dkey=val directly to the java runtime
.IP -J-X
pass option -X directly to the java runtime (-J is stripped)
.SH FILES
.I ~/.sbt
.RS
The user configuration file.
.RE
.I ".sbtopts"
.RS
If this file exists in the sbt root, it is prepended to the
runner args.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP JAVAOPTS
If non-null a set of arguments passed to java.
.IP SBTOPTS
environment variable, if unset uses "$default_sbt_opts".
.SH EXAMPLES
Most users of this script will only have to call "sbt" on the command line.
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Phillips <paulp@typesafe.com>


