### Fixes
* Fixed issue with using 2.8.0.RC1 (or later) compiler in tests.
* Fix `FileUtilities.unzip` to be tail-recursive again.
* Honor `-Xfatal-warnings` option added to compiler in 2.8.0.RC2.
* Derive Java source file from name of class file when no SourceFile attribute is present in the class file. Improves tracking when -g:none option is used.
* Properly support sftp/ssh repositories using key-based authentication. See the updated section of the [Resolvers](http://code.google.com/p/simple-build-tool/wiki/Resolvers#SFTP_and_SSH_Repositories) page.

### Improvements
* Prefix continuous compilation with the run number.  This useful when the logging level is 'warn', for example.
* Added `pomRepositoryFilter(repo: MavenRepository): Boolean` that can be overridden to exclude repositories from the pom generated by `make-pom`
* Added `pomPostProcess(pom: Node): Node` to make advanced manipulation of the default pom easier (`pomExtra` already covers basic cases).
* Added `reset` command to reset JLine terminal. This needs to be run after suspending and then resuming sbt.
* More accurate detection of invalid test names. Invalid test names now generate an error and prevent the test action from running instead of just logging a warning.
* Precompile compiler interface against 2.8.0.RC2
* Add `consoleOptions` for specifying options to the console. It defaults to `compileOptions`.
* New section in launcher configuration `[ivy]` with a single label `cache-directory`. Specify this to change the cache location used by the launcher.
* Added method `ivyUpdateLogging` to control logging level when running `update`.  Override it to be `UpdateLogging.DownloadOnly, Full, or Quiet`. The default is `DownloadOnly`.  `Full` will log metadata resolution and provide a final summary.  `Quiet` only logs problems.
* Make `scaladocTask` a `fileTask` so that it runs only when `index.html` is older than some input source.
* Sort input source files for consistency, addressing scalac's issues with source file ordering.
* `offline` property for disabling checking for newer dynamic revisions (like `-SNAPSHOT`). This allows working offline with remote snapshots.  Not honored for plugins yet.

### New Feature
* Commands for working with history.  Run `!` to see history command help.

### Compatibility
* Plugins can now only be Scala sources. BND should be usable in a plugin now.