  [413]: https://github.com/sbt/sbt/issues/413
  [1200]: https://github.com/sbt/sbt/issues/1200
  [1454]: https://github.com/sbt/sbt/pull/1454

### Eviction warnings

sbt 0.13.6 displays eviction warnings when it resolves your project's managed dependencies via `update` task.
Currently the eviction warnings are categorized into three layers: `scalaVersion` eviction, direct evictions, and transitive evictions.
By default eviction warning on `update` task will display only `scalaVersion` evictin and direct evictions.

`scalaVersion` eviction warns you when `scalaVersion` is no longer effecitive. This happens when one of your dependency depends on a newer release of scala-library than your `scalaVersion`.
Direct evctions are evictions related to your direct dependencies. Warnings are displayed only when API incompatibility is suspected. For Java libraries, Semantic Versioning is used for guessing, and for Scala libraries Second Segment versioning (second segment bump makes API incompatible) is used.

To display all eviction warnings with caller information, run `evicted` task.

    [warn] There may be incompatibilities among your library dependencies.
    [warn] Here are some of the libraries that were evicted:
    [warn]     * com.typesafe.akka:akka-actor_2.10:2.1.4 -> 2.3.4 (caller: com.typesafe.akka:akka-remote_2.10:2.3.4,
    org.w3:banana-sesame_2.10:0.4, org.w3:banana-rdf_2.10:0.4)

[#1200][1200].

### Consolidated resolution

sbt 0.13.6 adds a new setting key called `updateOptions`, which can be used to enable consolidated resolution for `update` task.

    updateOptions := updateOptions.value.withConsolidatedResolution(true)

This feature is specifically targeted to address [Ivy resolution is beging slow for multi-module projects #413][413]. Consolidated resolution aims to fix this issue by artificially constructing an Ivy dependency graph for the unique managed dependencies. If two subprojects introduce identical external dependencies, both subprojects should consolidate to the same graph, and therefore resolve immediately for the second `update`. [#1454][1454]
