===========
Setup Notes
===========

Some notes on how to set up your ``sbt`` script.

Do not put ``sbt-launch.jar`` on your classpath.
------------------------------------------------

Do *not* put ``sbt-launch.jar`` in your ``$SCALA_HOME/lib`` directory,
your project's ``lib`` directory, or anywhere it will be put on a
classpath. It isn't a library.

Terminal encoding
-----------------

The character encoding used by your terminal may differ from Java's
default encoding for your platform. In this case, you will need to add
the option ``-Dfile.encoding=<encoding>`` in your ``sbt`` script to set
the encoding, which might look like:

.. code-block:: console

    java -Dfile.encoding=UTF8

JVM heap, permgen, and stack sizes
----------------------------------

If you find yourself running out of permgen space or your workstation is
low on memory, adjust the JVM configuration as you would for any
application. For example a common set of memory-related options is:

.. code-block:: console

    java -Xmx1536M -Xss1M -XX:+CMSClassUnloadingEnabled -XX:MaxPermSize=256m``

For JDK 7 (which doesn't default to the ConcurrentMarkSweep garbage collector):

.. code-block:: console

    java -Xmx1536M -Xss1M -XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC -XX:+CMSClassUnloadingEnabled -XX:MaxPermSize=256m``

Boot directory
--------------

``sbt-launch.jar`` is just a bootstrap; the actual meat of sbt, and the
Scala compiler and standard library, are downloaded to the shared
directory ``$HOME/.sbt/boot/``.

To change the location of this directory, set the ``sbt.boot.directory``
system property in your ``sbt`` script. A relative path will be resolved
against the current working directory, which can be useful if you want
to avoid sharing the boot directory between projects. For example, the
following uses the pre-0.11 style of putting the boot directory in
``project/boot/``:

.. code-block:: console

    java -Dsbt.boot.directory=project/boot/

HTTP Proxy
----------

On Unix, sbt will pick up any HTTP proxy settings from the
``http.proxy`` environment variable. If you are behind a proxy requiring
authentication, your ``sbt`` script must also pass flags to set the
``http.proxyUser`` and ``http.proxyPassword`` properties:

.. code-block:: console

    java -Dhttp.proxyUser=username -Dhttp.proxyPassword=mypassword

On Windows, your script should set properties for proxy host, port, and
if applicable, username and password:

.. code-block:: console

    java -Dhttp.proxyHost=myproxy -Dhttp.proxyPort=8080 -Dhttp.proxyUser=username -Dhttp.proxyPassword=mypassword

