.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii sbt.1
.\"
.TH SBT 1 "NOVEMBER 2011" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
sbt \- An interactive build tool for Scala, Java, and more.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sbt [-h]
.I <commands>
.B ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
SBT is a build tool for Scala, Java, and more. It requires Java 1.8 or later.
The current directory is assumed to be the project.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h, --help"
Show help options.
.IP "-v, --verbose"
turn up the noise
.IP "-V, --version"
print sbt version information
.IP "--numeric-version"
print the numeric sbt version (sbt sbtVersion)
.IP "--script-version"
print the version of sbt script
.IP "-d, --debug"
set sbt log level to debug
.IP --no-colors
disable ANSI color codes
.IP "--color=auto|always|true|false|never"
enable or disable ANSI color codes      (sbt 1.3 and above)
.IP  "--supershell=auto|always|true|false|never"
enable or disable supershell            (sbt 1.3 and above)
.IP --traces
generate Trace Event report on shutdown (sbt 1.3 and above)
.IP --timings
display task timings report on shutdown
.IP --sbt-create
start sbt even if current directory contains no sbt project
.IP "--sbt-dir <path>"
path to global settings/plugins directory (default: ~/.sbt)
.IP "--sbt-boot <path>"
path to shared boot directory (default: ~/.sbt/boot in 0.11 series)
.IP "--ivy <path>"
path to local Ivy repository (default: ~/.ivy2)
.IP "--mem <integer>"
set memory options (default: 1024)
.IP "--no-share"
use all local caches; no sharing
.IP "--no-global"
uses global caches, but does not use global ~/.sbt directory.
.IP "--jvm-debug <port>"
Turn on JVM debugging, open at the given port.
.IP --batch
Disable interactive mode
.SH SBT Version Options
.IP "--sbt-version <version>"
Use the alternate system wide
.IP "--sbt-jar <path>"
use the specified jar as the sbt launcher
.SH Java Options
.IP "--java-home <path>"
alternate JAVA_HOME
.IP "-Dkey=val"
pass -Dkey=val directly to the java runtime
.IP -J-X
pass option -X directly to the java runtime (-J is stripped)
.IP -S-X
add -X to sbt's scalacOptions (-S is stripped)
.SH FILES
.I ~/.sbt
.RS
The user configuration directory.
.RE
.I ".jvmopts"
.RS
if this file exists in the current directory, its contents are appended
to the JAVA_OPTS.
.RE
.I ".sbtopts"
.RS
if this file exists in the current directory, its contents are prepended
to the runner args.
.RE
.I "/etc/sbt/sbtopts"
.RS
if this file exists, it is prepended to the runner args
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP JAVA_OPTS
If non-null a set of arguments passed to java.
.IP SBT_OPTS
environment variable, if unset uses "-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8".
.SH NOTES
In the case of duplicated or conflicting options, the order above
shows precedence: JAVA_OPTS lowest, command line options highest.
.SH EXAMPLES
Most users of this script will only have to call "sbt" on the command line.
.SH BUGS
https://github.com/sbt/sbt/issues
